README.md, before:

MIT-TAB
=======
A web application that allows APDA american debate tournaments to correctly tab
and manage their tournaments. You add the following information:

1. Schools
2. Debaters
3. Teams
4. Rooms
5. Scratches

Then you can use this program to actually run your tournament, which means for
each round you:

1. Pair the round
2. Assign judges to the round
3. Let the debaters debate
4. Enter in ballots

At the very end of the tournament you can view the ranking of all teams and all
debaters such that you can pair your elimination rounds accordingly. Since
elimination rounds as well as judge assignment for elimination rounds are much
more up to particuar tournament directors, this program will not do that for
you.

Installation + Running
----------------------
Currently the installation consists of downloading the code, installing
requirements and then manually running the server. So:
```
git clone <mit-tab repo> mit-tab
cd mit-tab
sudo pip install -r requirements.txt
python manage.py runserver
```

The code here is considered experimental and I have a production setup on EC2
that doesn't have a lot of the new refactoring and is considered more stable.

I am working on getting the django 1.6 version completely backwards compatible.

Why Should I Use This?
----------------------
There are a few other tab programs available, many of them free, many of them
decent, that can tabulate APDA style tournaments. The main differences between
all of the other programs and this one are:
* This is an open source project that anyone can see and change
* The algorithm for tabulation is much better (minimum weight perfect matching),
which means that your tab will be much more fair and as optimal as possible.
* The web interface means that you don't have to install any software locally
* The interface is generally pretty straight forward to use
* MIT-TAB has chosen simplicity over configurability in the general case, unlike
a program like TRPC, MIT-TAB forces you to use standard tabbing practices so that
tournament experiences are more uniform.

Commit message:

Test data and Readme update
Adding some more test data to lay the ground for comprehensive testing
of the tab logic functionality

README.md, after:

MIT-TAB
=======
A web application that allows APDA american debate tournaments to correctly tab
and manage their tournaments. You add the following information:

1. Schools
2. Debaters
3. Teams
4. Rooms
5. Scratches

Then you can use this program to actually run your tournament, which means for
each round you:

1. Pair the round
2. Assign judges to the round
3. Let the debaters debate
4. Enter in ballots

At the very end of the tournament you can view the ranking of all teams and all
debaters such that you can pair your elimination rounds accordingly. Since
elimination rounds as well as judge assignment for elimination rounds are much
more up to particuar tournament directors, this program will not do that for
you.

Installation + Running
----------------------
Currently the installation consists of downloading the code, installing
requirements and then manually running the server. So:
```
git clone <mit-tab repo> mit-tab
cd mit-tab
sudo pip install -r requirements.txt
python manage.py runserver
```

You can either run v1.0 (Django 1.4, battle hardened) or v2.0 (Django 1.6)

Production Setup
----------------
Do not attempt to run the django server in a production environment, you will
be very sad. Instead checkout:

[The production instructions](mittab/production_setup)

Why Should I Use This?
----------------------
There are a few other tab programs available, many of them free, many of them
decent, that can tabulate APDA style tournaments. The main differences between
all of the other programs and this one are:
* This is an open source project that anyone can see and change
* The algorithm for tabulation is much better (minimum weight perfect matching),
which means that your tab will be much more fair and as optimal as possible.
* The web interface means that you don't have to install any software locally
* The interface is generally pretty straight forward to use
* MIT-TAB has chosen simplicity over configurability in the general case, unlike
a program like TRPC, MIT-TAB forces you to use standard tabbing practices so that
tournament experiences are more uniform.
